fix: wpb-22590 add pages for ansible operations in production and intro (#106)
wireapp/wire-docs: src/how-to/administrate/kubernetes/upgrade-cluster/index.rst

Upgrading a Kubernetes cluster
==============================

Before upgrading Kubernetes, a couple of aspects should be taken into account:

* downtime is (not) permitted

> * stateful backing services run outside or on top of Kubernetes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* stateful backing services that are run outside or on top of Kubernetes
```

As a result the following questions arise:

1. Is an in-place upgrade required (reuse existing machines) or is it possible to
   deploy a second cluster right next to the first one and install Wire on top?

> 2. How was the Kubernetes cluster being deployed?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. How was the Kubernetes cluster deployed?
```

> Depending on the deployment method, the upgrade procedure may vary. It may be reasonable to test

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on the deployment method, the upgrade procedure may vary. It is advisable to test
```

the upgrade in a non-production environment first.
Regardless of the deployment method, it is recommended to :ref:`back up the cluster state
<etcd_backup-and-restore>` before starting to upgrade the cluster. Additional background knowledge
can be found in the section about :ref:`restarting a machine in an kubernetes cluster <restarting-a-machine-in-a-kubernetes-cluster>`.

.. warning::

    For an in-place upgrade, it is *NOT* recommended to go straight to the latest Kubernetes

>     version. Instead, one should upgrade step by step to each minor version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    version. Instead, one should upgrade step by step between each minor version.
```

Manually
~~~~~~~~

Doing an upgrade by hand is cumbersome and error-prone, which is why there are tools and
automation for this procedure. The high-level steps would be:

> 1. control plane (also see a more detailed `list <https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/cluster-upgrade/#manual-deployments>`__)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. upgrade the control plane (also see a more detailed `list <https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/cluster-upgrade/#manual-deployments>`__)
```

    a) all *etcd* instances
    b) api-server on each control-plane host
    c) controllers, scheduler,

> 2. nodes (order may vary, depending on whether the kube-components run in containers)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. update the nodes (order may vary, depending on whether the kube-components run in containers)
```

    * kubelet
    * kube-proxy
    * container runtime

> 3. clients (``kubectl``, e.g. on workstations or in pipelines)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. then upgrade the clients (``kubectl``, e.g. on workstations or in pipelines)
```

``upgrade-cluster.yml``. Before running the playbook, make sure that the right Kubespray version
is being used. Each Kubespray version supports only a small and sliding window of Kubernetes
versions (check ``kube_version`` & ``kube_version_min_required`` in ``roles/kubespray-defaults/defaults/main.yaml``
for a given `release version tag <https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubespray/releases>`__).

The commands may look similar to this example (assuming Kubernetes v1.18 version installed
with Kubespray 2.14):

.. code:: bash

    git clone https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubespray
    cd kubespray
    git checkout release-2.15
    ${EDITOR} roles/kubespray-defaults/defaults/main.yaml

    ansible-playbook -i ./../path/my/inventory-dir -e kube_version=v1.19.7 ./upgrade-cluster.yml

.. TODO: adjust the example showing how to run this with wire-server-deploy a/o the offline toolchain container image
.. TODO: add ref to the part of this documentation that talks about the air-gapped installation

Kubespray takes care of bringing the new binaries into position on each machine, restarting
the components, and draining/uncordon nodes.

> *For more details and commands, please refer to the official documentation:*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*For more details, please refer to the official documentation:*
```
